[heos] Denon HEOS Binding initial contribution (#2886)
openhab/openhab2-addons: addons/binding/org.openhab.binding.heos/README.md

## Supported Things

Bridge:
The binding support a bride for connecting to the HEOS-Network

Player:
A generic player is supported via this binding. Currently no differences are made between the players. May be introduced in the future

Groups:
Groups are supported by this binding.

## Discovery

This binding support full automatic discovery of bridges, players and groups. It is recommended to use the PaperUI to setup the system and add all players and groups.
The bridge is discovered through UPnP in the local network. Once it is added the players and groups are read via the bridge and placed within the inbox.
Nether the less also manual configuration is possible

## Binding Configuration

This binding does not require any configuration via a .cfg file. The configuration is done via the Thing definition.
Within the binding the callback URL can be set. This URL is needed if a player or a group is registered as an audio sink within OpenHab.
The URL is in most of the cases the URL if the OpenHab server. Also the port has to be defined.

> Example: http://192.168.0.7:8080 or if the sound file is located on the OpenHab server http://localhost:8080

Author: This URL is for the playSound function of OpenHab. You have to specify at which URL the sound server is located. It is a required parameter of the AudioSink class.

> Example: http://192.168.0.7:8080 or if the sound file is located on the OpenHab server http://localhost:8080

Reviewer: What I meant is I did not understand the use case. When would I want to configure this URL, to do what? I would like to have a non-technical explanation from a user-perspective in which cases and why it's needed.

Volume | Dimmer | Volume control
Mute | Switch | Mute the Group
Title | String | Song Title
Interpret | String | Song Interpret
Album | String  | Album Title
Ungroup | Switch | Deletes the group (OFF) or generate the group again (ON) 
Image_URL | String |The URL where the cover can be found
OnlineStatus | String | Indicates the status ONLINE or OFFLINE
CurrentPosition | String | Shows the current track position in milliseconds
Duration | String | The overall track duration in milliseconds
Type | String | The type of the played media. Station or song for example
Station | String | The station name if it is a station (Spotify shows track name....)
Inputs | String | The input to be switched to. Input values from HEOS protocol
PlayURL | String | Plays a media file located at the URL

#### Inputs depending on Player type (Date 12.02.2017):

Input names |
----------------|
aux_in_1 /
aux_in_2 /
aux_in_3 /
aux_in_4 /
aux1 /
aux2 /
aux3 /
aux4 /
aux5 /
aux6 /
aux7 /
line_in_1 /
line_in_2 /
line_in_3 /
line_in_4 /
coax_in_1 /
coax_in_2 /
optical_in_1 /
optical_in_2 /
hdmi_in_1 /
hdmi_arc_1 /
cable_sat /
dvd /
bluray /
game /
mediaplayer /
cd /
tuner /
hdradio /
tvaudio /

> phono /

Author: I added the Heos CLI as source document.

### The Bridge provides the following channels:

Channel ID | Item Type | Description
----------------|-----------|-------------
Reboot | Switch | Reboot the whole HEOS System. Can be used if you get in trouble with the system
DynamicGroupHandling | Switch | If this option id activated the system automatically removes groups if they are ungrouped. Only works if the group is added via an UI.
BuildGroup | Switch | Is used to define a group. The player which shall be grouped has to be selected first. If Switch is then activated the group is build.
Playlists | String | Plays a playlist on the prior selected Player Channel (see below) Playlists are identified by numbers. List can be found in the HEOS App

> RawCommand | String | A channel where every HEOS CLI command can be send to.

Author: I added a link within the readme..md

### Group Configuration

```
Thing heos:group:memberHash "name" [gid="123456789", name="name", model="modelName", ipAddress="192.168.0.xxx", type="Group", memberHash="123456789"] 
```

*If group is configured by PaperUI the group UID is calculated by the Hash value of the group members*

Required fields are the GID which is the PID of the group leading player and the type which is Group here.  

### Defining Bridge and Players together

Defining Player and Bridge together. To ensure that the players and groups are attached to the bridge the definition can be like:

```
Bridge heos:bridge:main "Bridge" [ipAddress="192.168.0.1", name="Bridge", userName="userName", password="123456"] {
	
	player Kitchen "Kitchen"[pid="434523813", name="Kitchen", type="Player"]
	player LivingRoom "Living Room"[pid="918797451", name="Living Room", type="Player"]
  	player 813793755 "Bath Room"[pid="813793755", name="Bath Room", type="Player"]
	
}
```

## Channels

Note:
The channels have different paths if you configure our Things manual or via an UI. It is recommended to check the correct path via an UI.

### Player provide the following channels:

> Channel ID | Item Type | Description

Author: Okay

The password and the user name are used to login to the HEOS account. This is required to load the favorites, playlists and so on from personal settings.
If no login information is provided these features can't be used.  

````
Bridge heos:bridge:main "name" [ipAddress="192.168.0.1", unsername="xxx", password="123456"]  
````

### Player Configuration

Player have the following configuration parameter

| Parameter         | Description                                                | Required  |
|-----------------  |----------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| pid               | The internal player ID                                     | yes       |

For manual configuration a player can be defined as followed:

````
Thing heos:player:pid "name" [pid="123456789"] 
````

PID behind the heos:player:--- should be changed as required. Every name or value can be used.
It is recommended to use the player PID.
If the PID isn't known it can be discovered by establishing a TelNet connection (port 1255) to one player and search for available players (Command: heos://player/get_players) within the network.

> An other way is to use PaperUI to discover the player via the bridge and get the PID.

Reviewer 2: Another instead of "an other"?

#### A detailed explanation of binding possibilities and the handling can be found at the end. Also some examples are provided how the binding can be used

## Supported Things

Bridge:
The binding supports a bride for connecting to the HEOS-Network

Player:
A generic player is supported via this binding. Currently no differences are made between the players.

Groups:
Groups are supported by this binding.

## Discovery

This binding supports full automatic discovery of available players to be used as a bridge, players and groups (both after establishing a connection via a bridge). It is recommended to use the PaperUI or other GUI to setup the system and add all players and groups.
The bridge is discovered through UPnP in the local network. Once it is added the players and groups are discovered via the bridge and placed within the inbox.
Nethertheless also manual configuration is possible

## Binding Configuration

> This binding does not require any configuration via a .cfg file. The configuration is done via the Thing definition.

Author: Okay I removed the optional configuration and use an automatic configuration only. So also all references are removed from the readme.md

The password and the user name are used to login to the HEOS account. This is required to load the favorites, playlists and so on from personal settings. If no login information is provided these features can't be used.  

````
Bridge heos:bridge:main "name" [ipAddress="192.168.0.1", name="Default", unserName="xxx", password="123456"]  
````

### Player Configuration

Players can be added via the PaperUI. All fields are then filled automatically.
For manual configuration a player is defined as followed:

````
Thing heos:player:pid "name" [pid="123456789", name="name", model="modelName", ipAddress="192.168.0.xxx"] 
````

PID behind the heos:player:--- should be changed as required. Every name or value can be used. It is recommended to use the player PID. Within the configuration the PID is mandatory. The rest is not required.
If the PID isn't known it can be discovered by establishing a TelNet connection (port 1255) to one player and search for available players
(Command: heos://player/get_players)
within the network. For further details refer to the [HEOS CLI](http://rn.dmglobal.com/euheos/HEOS_CLI_ProtocolSpecification.pdf) specification.

> *If player is configured by PaperUI the UID of the player is equal to the player ID (PID) from the HEOS system*

Reviewer 3: remove

### Group Configuration

```
Thing heos:group:memberHash "name" [gid="123456789", name="name", model="modelName", ipAddress="192.168.0.xxx", memberHash="123456789"] 
```

> *If group is configured by PaperUI the group UID is calculated by the Hash value of the group members*

Reviewer 3: remove

> Required fields are the GID which is the PID of the group leading player.  

Reviewer 3: please provide a table at the top of this section

### Defining Bridge and Players together

Defining Player and Bridge together. To ensure that the players and groups are attached to the bridge the definition can be like:

```
Bridge heos:bridge:main "Bridge" [ipAddress="192.168.0.1", name="Bridge", userName="userName", password="123456"] {
	
	player Kitchen "Kitchen"[pid="434523813", name="Kitchen", type="Player"]
	player LivingRoom "Living Room"[pid="918797451", name="Living Room", type="Player"]
  	player 813793755 "Bath Room"[pid="813793755", name="Bath Room", type="Player"]
	
}
```

## Channels

Note:

> The channels have different paths if you configure our Things manual or via an UI. It is recommended to check the correct path via an UI.

Reviewer 3: Channels do not have any "path" - they have a UID, do you mean this?
It should always be `<thingUID>:<channelID>`, so I'd think this notice should be removed.

> ### Player provide the following channels:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Channels of Thing Type `player`
```

| Cover             | Image         | The cover of the actual song                                          |
| Inputs            | String        | The input to be switched to. Input values from HEOS protocol          |
| CurrentPosition   | Number        | Shows the current track position in seconds                           |
| Duration          | Number        | The overall track duration in seconds                                 |
| Type              | String        | The type of the played media. Station or song for example             |
| Station           | String        | The station name if it is a station (Spotify shows track name....)    |
| PlayUrl           | String        | Plays a media file located at the URL                                 |
| Shuffle           | Switch        | Switches shuffle ON or OFF                                            |
| RepeatMode        | String        | Defines the repeat mode: Inputs are: "One" ; "All" or "Off"           |
| Playlists         | String        | Plays a playlist. Playlists are identified by numbers (starting at 0!). List can be found in the HEOS App            |

> ####Example:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Example
```

```
Player LivingRoom_Control "Control" {channel="heos:player:main:LivingRoom:Control"}
```

> ### Groups provide the following channels:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Channels of Thing Type `group`
```

| Cover             | Image         | The cover of the actual song                                          |
| CurrentPosition   | Number        | Shows the current track position in seconds                           |
| Duration          | Number        | The overall track duration in seconds                                 |
| Type              | String        | The type of the played media. Station or song for example             |
| Station           | String        | The station name if it is a station (Spotify shows track name....)    |
| Inputs            | String        | The input to be switched to. Input values from HEOS protocol          |
| PlayUrl           | String        | Plays a media file located at the URL                                 |
| Shuffle           | Switch        | Switches shuffle ON or OFF                                            |
| RepeatMode        | String        | Defines the repeat mode: Inputs are: "One" ; "All" or "Off"           |
| Playlists         | String        | Plays a playlist. Playlists are identified by numbers (starting at 0!). List can be found in the HEOS App            |

> #### Inputs depending on Player type (Date 12.02.2017):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

#### Input Values
```

| Input names   |
|-------------- |
| aux_in_1      |
| aux_in_2      |
| aux_in_3      |
| aux_in_4      |
| aux1          |
| aux2          |
| aux3          |
| aux4          |
| aux5          |
| aux6          |
| aux7          |
| line_in_1     |
| line_in_2     |
| line_in_3     |
| line_in_4     |
| coax_in_1     |
| coax_in_2     |
| optical_in_1  |
| optical_in_2  |
| hdmi_in_1     |
| hdmi_arc_1    |
| cable_sat     |
| dvd           |
| bluray        |
| game          |
| mediaplayer   |
| cd            |
| tuner         |
| hdradio       |
| tvaudio       |
| phono         |

> An actual list can be found within the HEOS CLI protocol which can be found [here](http://rn.dmglobal.com/euheos/HEOS_CLI_ProtocolSpecification.pdf).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A current list can be found within the HEOS CLI protocol which can be found [here](http://rn.dmglobal.com/euheos/HEOS_CLI_ProtocolSpecification.pdf).
```

> ### The Bridge provides the following channels:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Channels of Thing Type `bridge`
```

| Channel ID            | Item Type     | Description                                                                                                                                               |
|---------------------- |-----------    |--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------   |
| Reboot                | Switch        | Reboot the whole HEOS System. Can be used if you get in trouble with the system                                                                           |
| DynamicGroupHandling  | Switch        | If this option id activated the system automatically removes groups if they are ungrouped. Only works if the group is added via an UI.                    |
| BuildGroup            | Switch        | Is used to define a group. The player which shall be grouped has to be selected first. If Switch is then activated the group is build.                    |

> | RawCommand            | String        | A channel where every HEOS CLI command can be send to.                                                                                                    |

Reviewer 3: This isn't really nice as a channel. Would probably be nice to add it as a rule action for the Thing instead - this is something that is just about to become available with https://github.com/eclipse/smarthome/pull/6398.

| Channel ID    | Item Type     | Description                                                                                               |
|------------   |-----------    |-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------    |
| {mid}         | Switch        | A channel which represents the favorite. Please check via UI how the correct Channel Type looks like.     |
 
 Example

 ```
 Switch Favorite_1 "Fav 1 [%s]" {channel="heos:bridge:main:s17492"}
 ```

### Player Channels

| Channel ID    | Item Type     | Description                                                                                           |
|------------   |-----------    |-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  |
| {playerID}    | Switch        | A channel which represents the player. Please check via UI how the correct Channel Type looks like.   |

Example

 ```
 Switch Player_1 "Player [%s]" {channel="heos:bridge:main:P123456789"}  
 ```

 The {playerUID} has either a P in front of the number which indicates that this is a player or a G to indicate this is a group.
 
 

>  **Note: It seems at the moment that the dynamic channels are only work correctly if things are managed via UI.**

Reviewer 3: Should not be the case, so please remove this notice.

#### Example

Player A = Kitchen (destination)
Player B = Living Room (source)

Items:

```
Switch HeosBridge_Play_Living	"Living Room"	(gHeos)	{channel="heos:bridge:ed0ac1ff-0193-65c6-c1b8-506137456a50:P918797451"}
String HeosKitchen_Input			(gHeos) {channel="heos:player:918797451:Inputs"}
String HeosKitchen_InputSelect	"Input"		(gHeos)	
```

Rule for kitchen:

```
rule "Play AuxIn from Living Room"
	when
		Item HeosKitchen_InputSelect received command
	then
		if (receivedCommand.toString == "aux_in_1") {
			sendCommand(HeosKitchen_Input, "aux_in_1")
			
		} if (receivedCommand.toString == "LivingRoom") {
			sendCommand(HeosBridge_Play_Living, ON)
			sendCommand(HeosKitchen_Input, "aux_in_1")
			sendCommand(HeosBridge_Play_Living, OFF)	//Switch player channel off again to be sure that it is OFF
		}
```

Sitemap:

```
Switch item=HeosKitchen_InputSelect	mappings=[aux_in_1 = "Aux In" , LivingRoom = "Living Room"]
```

> ### The OnlineState of Groups and Players

Reviewer 3: Note: Things have an ONLINE status, not state.

	
	Default item=HeosGroup1_Player
	Default item=HeosGroup1_Volume
	Default item=HeosGroup1_Mute
	Default item=HeosGroup1_Favorites
	Default item=HeosGroup1_Playlist
	
	Text item=HeosGroup1_Song {
		Default item=HeosGroup1_Song
		Default item=HeosGroup1_Artist
		Default item=HeosGroup1_Album
		Image item=HeosGroup1_Cover url=""
	}
	
}
```

### Dynamic Group Handling (Keep Groups)

Groups are a more or less dynamic item compared to the players. The players are always present within the network and are only added or removed if they are added or removed physically. Groups on the other hand are dynamic because they are only virtual created and removed. 
Therefore dynamic group handling only sets groups to OFFLINE if the option is activated. This is indicated via the "OnlineStatus" channel of the group. If the group then is created again the binding automatically sets the status to online without the need of action by the user.
If dynamic group handling is deactivated the group thing is completely removed if the binding is notified about a removed group. The group then has to be added manually again if created.

### Playlists

> Playlists can be played by sending the number (starts at 0!) to the binding via the playlists channel at the corresponding player or group. To find the correct number for the playlist, please have a look to the HEOS App and see at which position the playlist you want to play is located.

Reviewer 4: I really like how it works now!

Maybe it would suite to apply the same logic for the favorites :-)

Author: Good to hear!
You mean instead of having a dedicated channels for each favorite?

Reviewer 4: No to move it from the bridge to the device / group.

Reviewer 4: > You mean instead of having a dedicated channels for each favorite?

Although that would maybe also work well...

Author: I started to have a look on it, but these requires a little bit more work, because I have to change how the channels are created. 
But I will continue working on it.

|---------------------- |-----------    |--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------   |
| Reboot                | Switch        | Reboot the whole HEOS System. Can be used if you get in trouble with the system                                                                           |
| DynamicGroupHandling  | Switch        | If this option id activated the system automatically removes groups if they are ungrouped. Only works if the group is added via an UI.                    |
| BuildGroup            | Switch        | Is used to define a group. The player which shall be grouped has to be selected first. If Switch is then activated the group is build.                    |
| Playlists             | String        | Plays a playlist on the prior selected Player Channel (see below) Playlists are identified by numbers. List can be found in the HEOS App                  |
| RawCommand            | String        | A channel where every HEOS CLI command can be send to.                                                                                                    |

> | PlayUrl               | String        | Plays a media file located at the URL. First select the player channel where the stram shall be played. Then send the stream via the Play URL channel.    |

Reviewer 4: Why is this channel on the bridge, can you explain your description?

Do you have a single bridge above all the HEOS devices or is it on bridge per device?

Author: This is an old channel. First I only had it on the bridge. Now,each player has an PlayURL channel. This one at the bridge can be removed. 
There is one bridge for the whole HEOS system which controls the system.

Author: So I checked it. It is possible to play and URL via the bridge by selecting the player channel first or by using the channel at the player and groups. 
Maybe it would be god to have only one way. 
wdyt?

Reviewer 3: Still to be removed?

Author: Yes

Therefore dynamic group handling only sets groups to OFFLINE if the option is activated. This is indicated via the "OnlineStatus" channel of the group. If the group then is created again the binding automatically sets the status to online without the need of action by the user.
If dynamic group handling is deactivated the group thing is completely removed if the binding is notified about a removed group. The group then has to be added manually again if created.

### Playlists

Playlists can be played by sending the number (starts at 0!) to the binding via the playlists channel at the bridge. To find the correct number for the playlist, please have a look to the HEOS App and see at which position the playlist you want to play is located.
To tell the binding at which player or group the playlist shall be played, select the related player or group channel at the bridge prior sending the command to the playlist channel.
This can be done by a rule within openHAB

#### Example

Items:

```
Switch HeosBridge_Play_Kitchen		"Kitchen"   (gHeos) {channel="heos:bridge:ed0ac1ff-0193-65c6-c1b8-506137456a50:P918797451"}

> String HeosBridge_Playlists		"Playlists" (gHeos) {channel="heos:bridge:ed0ac1ff-0193-65c6-c1b8-506137456a50:Playlists"}

Reviewer 4: Do you set the playlist to be played on the bridge and not the actual player?

Author: Yes. The reason was to have a channel for each favorite. To reduce the amount of channels per thing I decided to have them at the bridge and control playing the favorite from the bridge by selecting the player channel first and then the favorite channel.

Reviewer 4: Now I also understand how I should use the favorites but because of that you cannot control them without any rules (or have to use multiple buttons in the GUI).

What is the consequence of multiple heos devices are one will it be played on all then? I think it would be way easier to use (most likely not for your implementation ;-) ) when you just have those channels on the player and group, so you directly control it without any rules. wdyt?

Author: I agree. Now I also think that this is a better solutin. I can see how this can be done. I think it should possible to use the same method which creates the channel on the bridge for creating them on the players and groups. 
And yes. If you select multiple player it starts playing on all of them.

Author: Oh big topic... 😄 Yes handling the queue is a topic which could be added. But I haven't started yet. But yes, cleaning the queue should be added. This can be done by a single channel. 
If thinking about further queue handling also a "Queue Channel" with additional options could be a way...

Reviewer 4: Maybe we should park this till after a merge, it is a new feature we could be based on the merged version.

Author: One question. Is it possible to add options to a channel which is added dynamically during execution? This would maybe be a cool thing if there is a playlist channel which as options depending on the found playlists...

Reviewer 4: I'm not that familiar to that function maybe @ppieczul or @tmrobert8 or @htreu know :-)

# Denon HEOS Binding

This binding support the HEOS-System from Denon. The binding provides control of the players and groups within the network.
It also supports selecting favorites and play them on players or groups within the HEOS-Network. 
The binding first establishes a connection to one of the players of the HEOS-Network and use them as a bridge.
After a connection is established, the binding searches for all available players and groups via the bridge.
To keep the network traffic low it is recommended to establish only one connection via one bridge.
Connection to the bridge is done via a Telnet connection.

## Supported Things

Bridge:
The binding supports a bridge to connect to the HEOS-Network.

> A bridge uses the thing ID "bridge"

Reviewer 3: End all sentences with a dot.

#### A detailed explanation of binding possibilities and the handling can be found at the end. Also some examples are provided how the binding can be used

## Supported Things

Bridge:
The binding supports a bride for connecting to the HEOS-Network

Player:
A generic player is supported via this binding. Currently no differences are made between the players.

Groups:
Groups are supported by this binding.

## Discovery

This binding supports full automatic discovery of available players to be used as a bridge, players and groups (both after establishing a connection via a bridge). It is recommended to use the PaperUI or other GUI to setup the system and add all players and groups.
The bridge is discovered through UPnP in the local network. Once it is added the players and groups are discovered via the bridge and placed within the inbox.
Nether the less also manual configuration is possible

## Binding Configuration

This binding does not require any configuration via a .cfg file. The configuration is done via the Thing definition.

> Within the binding the callback URL can be set. This URL is needed if a player or a group is registered as an audio sink within OpenHab. If a device is registered as an audio sink notification sounds will be played at this device.

Reviewer 4: What do you mean with this,. what can I do to set this up correctly.

If the PID isn't known it can be discovered by establishing a TelNet connection (port 1255) to one player and search for available players
(Command: heos://player/get_players)
within the network. For further details refer to the [HEOS CLI](http://rn.dmglobal.com/euheos/HEOS_CLI_ProtocolSpecification.pdf) specification.

*If player is configured by PaperUI the UID of the player is equal to the player ID (PID) from the HEOS system*

### Group Configuration

```
Thing heos:group:memberHash "name" [gid="123456789", name="name", model="modelName", ipAddress="192.168.0.xxx", type="Group", memberHash="123456789"] 
```

*If group is configured by PaperUI the group UID is calculated by the Hash value of the group members*

Required fields are the GID which is the PID of the group leading player and the type which is Group here.  

### Defining Bridge and Players together

Defining Player and Bridge together. To ensure that the players and groups are attached to the bridge the definition can be like:

```

> Bridge heos:bridge:main "Bridge" [ipAddress="192.168.0.1", name="Bridge", userName="userName", password="123456"] {

Reviewer 4: How why / when do I need to enter a password? Its not directly clear from the README and the GUI for me.

Author: I added an description which password it is below the Bridge Configuration Chapter

	
	player Kitchen "Kitchen"[pid="434523813", name="Kitchen", type="Player"]
	player LivingRoom "Living Room"[pid="918797451", name="Living Room", type="Player"]
  	player 813793755 "Bath Room"[pid="813793755", name="Bath Room", type="Player"]
	
}
```

## Channels

Note:
The channels have different paths if you configure our Things manual or via an UI. It is recommended to check the correct path via an UI.

### Player provide the following channels:

Channel ID | Item Type | Description
----------------|-----------|-------------
Control | Player | Play (also ON) / Pause (also OFF) / Next / Previous
Volume | Dimmer | Volume control / also accepts "DECREASE" & "INCREASE"
Mute | Switch | Mute the Player
Title | String | Song Title
Interpret | String | Song Interpret
Album | String  | Album Title
ImageUrl | String |The URL where the cover can be found 
Inputs | String | The input to be switched to. Input values from HEOS protocol

> CurrentPosition | String | Shows the current trakc position in milliseconds

Reviewer 4: Typo 'trakc'

> CurrentPosition | String | Shows the current trakc position in milliseconds

Reviewer 4: It would be very nice if [UoM](https://www.eclipse.org/smarthome/documentation/concepts/units-of-measurement.html) could be applied, because millis is not a very handy unit for this.

Author: I changed it to seconds

Duration | String | The overall track duration in milliseconds

> Type | String | The type of the played media. Station or song for example

Reviewer 4: If I switch to aux it keeps showing `station` (instead) as the type, however it does update station, input source and song:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2625279/43157452-5f88fec2-8f7d-11e8-9d15-98e525709b2d.png)

Reviewer 4: And when switching to a song via my nas after that the input source does not update:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2625279/43157633-e2d1b5ee-8f7d-11e8-9173-e25af73168aa.png)

Reviewer 4: Maybe it would make more sense to empty fields instead of filling them with a placeholder such as `No station`

Author: Unfortunately HEOS also indicates the `Aux In` as a station. But I will see what I can indicated instead.
Instead of `No Station` I will empty the field. That shouldn't be a problem.
The input source is not describe correctly. I have to improve that. It only indicates the external source. So not if played from local file or NAS. I wil check how it can be improved. Maybe by adding an additional channel for the general input source.

Author: I changed the behavior of that. Can you please check if it works better now?

Reviewer 4: Did you happen to release it somewhere otherwise I can of course check out your branch :-)

Author: I released the latest version here as a quick draft.

https://github.com/Wire82/openhab2-addons/releases/tag/v2.4.0

Reviewer 4: I literally have it running with a self compiled one for 5 minutes 👍

Author: Oh then I was a little bit to late. 😄
